XXVIII ENMC, XVI ECTM
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF PAPERS FOR
PUBLICATION IN THE PROCEEDINGS OF XXVIII ENMC / XVI ECTM
First Author1 - e-mail
Second Author2 - e-mail
Third Author3 - e-mail
1 Universidade Estadual de Montes Claros – Montes Claros – MG
2 Instituto Federal do Norte de Minas Gerais – Montes Claros – MG
3 Universidade Federal dos Vales do Jequititinhonha e Mucuri – Janaúba – MG

Abstract. This document-template provides detailed instructions for preparing and submitting a
paper to XXVIII ENMC – National Meeting on Computational Modeling / XVI ECTM – Meeting
on Materials Science and Technology. Please follow these instructions: a) type the body of the
paper in a single column; b) use 5 to 10 A4-size pages (21 cm × 29.7 cm), each formatted with
2.5 cm margins on all sides except at the top of the page (do not print any border around the
text and do not insert page numbers); c) use 12 pt Times New Roman throughout, except on
affiliation identification; d) type up to 200 words in the abstract, in italics; e) always use singlespaced lines, justified alignment; f) cite references by name (year) and list in alphabetical order
by author last name at the end; g) supply good quality figures/photographs being recommended
a resolution of 300 dpi (color figures can be used); h) define all symbols as they appear in the
text; i) use only SI units. The paper may be written in English, Portuguese or Spanish.
Keywords: First keyword, Second keyword, Third keyword (up to 5 keywords)
1.

INTRODUCTION [Times New Roman 12pt, all capital letters, bold]

The Proceedings of XXVIII ENMC / XVI ECTM, which include the full versions of all
papers to be presented at the meeting, will be published in digital media. Therefore, it is
extremely important that you prepare the PDF digital version of your contribution in accordance
with the present instructions. The file size must be less than 4 MB.
The Editorial Committee will evaluate all submitted papers.
1.1 Alterations
Hyperref package inclusion; Eq. (1) or Fig. 1
Bibliography with apalike, through .bib file
For references, use cite for external or direct citacion “In Del Vecchio (1992)...”, and citep
for in parenthesis/indirect (Del Vecchio, 1992).

XXVIII ENMC – Encontro Nacional de Modelagem Computacional
XVI ECTM – Encontro de Ciência e Tecnologia de Materiais
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

XXVIII ENMC, XVI ECTM
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

Examples inside .bib for conference (Davies et al., 2008), for book (Horrocks and Anand,
2016), for in-collection (Linganiso and Anandjiwala, 2016), for article (Abhari et al., 2017),
for PhD thesis (Del Vecchio, 1992), and for manual/standard International Organization for
Standardization (1994).
2.

TYPING INSTRUCTIONS

The paper must be written in English, Portuguese or Spanish. If written in Portuguese or
Spanish, a translation of title, abstract and keywords into English must be provided at the end
of the paper (after the reference list).
2.1 Paper length
The full paper including figures and tables must have at least 5 pages, but is limited to 10
A4-size pages (21 cm x 29.7 cm). Please limit your paper by writing concisely, rather than by
reducing figures or tables to a size at which symbols/labels become difficult to read.
2.2 Page format
Each A4-size page should be formatted with 2.5 cm margins on all sides, except at the top.
This defines the printable area. Inside this area, the text must be arranged in a single column.
Please do not print any border around the text and do not insert page numbers.
The final paper should look like this document.
2.3 General text specifications
The paper must be typed using 12 pt Times New Roman throughout the text, as in the present
document. This includes title, headings, and figure and table captions.
Paper title. The title should be in boldface type, all capital letters and centered on the page
and must not exceed three lines. It should be single spaced if longer than one line. Skip one
line (12 pt) between the title and the first author.
Author(s) and affiliation. Type authors names in boldface type, flush left, one per line,
including first name, middle and last name, followed by the e-mail address (not boldfaced).
After the name put in superscript the number, related to the affiliation. The authors names
should be followed by the corresponding affiliation, which should be in regular type (neither
boldfaced nor italicized). After presenting affiliations should skip two lines (24 pt) between the
last affiliation and the abstract.
Abstract and keywords. Type the heading Abstract. in boldface italics, flush left, followed
by a period. On the same line, type the abstract in italics, justified alignment. The abstract
should be no longer than 200 words. Skip one line, then type the heading Keywords: (don’t
forget the colon) in boldface italics, flush left and type 3 to 5 keywords, separated by commas,
with only the first letter of each keyword capitalized. Skip two lines (24 pt) between the
keywords and the body of text.

XXVIII ENMC – Encontro Nacional de Modelagem Computacional
XVI ECTM – Encontro de Ciência e Tecnologia de Materiais
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

XXVIII ENMC, XVI ECTM
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

Headings. Type a first-level head (section) in all capital letters, boldface type, flush left.
Begin by typing the Arabic number followed by a period, then type the head title 0.75 cm (or 7
blank spaces) from the left margin. Leave one blank line above and one below this head.
For a second-level head (subsection), capitalize only the first letter, using boldface type,
flush left. Begin by typing the double number, then type the sub-head title 0.75 cm from the left
margin. Leave one blank line above and one below this head.
Do not number third-level heads (sub-subsection). Use boldface italics, capitalizing only
the first letter and indenting 0.75 cm from the left margin. Follow it by a period and start the
text immediately. Leave one blank line above this head.
Body of text. The text should be typed using single-spaced lines and justified alignment.
Start each paragraph 0.75 cm from the left margin and allow no space between paragraphs.
2.4 Equations, symbols and units
Indent an equation 1 cm (or 10 spaces) from the left margin. Number it with an Arabic
number enclosed in parentheses, placed flush right. Allow one blank line above and one below
each equation. For example:
⃗qr = −4πr2 k

dT
dr

(1)

When referring to an equation in the text write Eq. (1), except at the beginning of a sentence,
where Equation (1) should be used.
Symbols should be italicized throughout the text. Define all symbols as they appear in the
text. A nomenclature section is not necessary.
All data, including those shown in tables and figures, must be reported in SI units.
2.5 Figures and tables
Figures and tables should be inserted as close as possible to their mention in the text.
Enclosed text and symbols must be clearly readable; avoid small symbols. Supply good quality
pictures and illustrations.
Figures and tables and their captions should be centered in the text. Place figure caption
below the figure, leaving one blank line between them. Place table title above the table, also
leaving one blank line between them. Leave one blank line between the table or figure and the
adjacent text. Color figures can be used.
Number figures and tables consecutively using Arabic numerals (e.g., Figure 1, Figure 2,
Table 1, Table 2). Refer to them in the text as Table 1 and Fig. 1 (except at the beginning of a
sentence, where Figure 1 should be used).
Table 1: Input parameters

Method LJ
k1 (W/mK)
k2 (W/mK)
n

Configuration
[0, 0; 0, 1]
[0, 0; 0, 1]
1, 0

Method R2W
k1 (W/mK)
k2 (W/mK)
n

XXVIII ENMC – Encontro Nacional de Modelagem Computacional
XVI ECTM – Encontro de Ciência e Tecnologia de Materiais
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

Configuration
[0, 0; 0, 1]
[0, 0; 0, 1]
1, 0

XXVIII ENMC, XVI ECTM
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

Figure 1: Gibbs free energy variations: simulated results.

Label coordinates in plots and add the corresponding units. Similarly, label columns/rows
in tables and add the units.
2.6 Permission
You are responsible for making sure that you have the right to publish everything in your
paper. If you use material from a copyrighted source, you may need to obtain permission from
the copyright holder.
3.

CALL TO REFERENCES IN THE BODY OF TEXT

References should be cited in the text by name last (year) or (last name, year). For example:
“In a recent work, Jones et al. (2005) proposed ...,” or “In a recent work (Devlou & Zaparolli,
2013), it is suggested ... .”
References must be listed in alphabetical order at the end of the paper. Type the word
REFERENCES in all capitals, boldface type from the left margin, skip one line and type
the reference list. In each reference, indent all lines 0.75 cm except the first line, which
starts directly at the left margin. Each reference must be cited in the text. In the section
REFERENCES is presented an example of a reference list including a journal article, a report,
an edited book, proceedings, a dissertation and a book.
4.

CONCLUSIONS

This section should be included and need to show the main contributions of the paper in a
briefly form.
Acknowledgements
This section should be positioned between the end of the text and the reference list. Type
Acknowledgements in boldface italics, skip one line of space and type the text in regular type.
XXVIII ENMC – Encontro Nacional de Modelagem Computacional
XVI ECTM – Encontro de Ciência e Tecnologia de Materiais
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

XXVIII ENMC, XVI ECTM
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

REFERENCES
Abhari, R. E., Martins, J. A., Morris, H. L., Mouthuy, P.-A., and Carr, A. (2017). Synthetic sutures:
Clinical evaluation and future developments. Journal of Biomaterials Applications, 32(3):410–421.
Davies, P., Baron, P., Salomon, K., Bideaud, C., Labbé, J.-P., Toumit, S., Francois, M., Grosjean,
F., Bunsell, T., and Moysan, A.-G. (2008). Influence of fibre stiffness on deepwater mooring line
response. In 27th International Conference on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering, pages
179–187, Estoril, Portugal.
Del Vecchio, C. J. M. (1992). Light weight materials for deep water moorings. PhD thesis, University
of Reading, Reading, UK.
Horrocks, A. R. and Anand, S. C., editors (2016). Handbook of Technical Textiles. Woodhead Publishing
Series in Textiles. Woodhead Publishing, second edition edition.
International Organization for Standardization (1994). Textiles — Yarn from packages — Determination
of linear density (mass per unit length) by the skein method. International Organization for
Standardization. ISO 2060:1994.
Linganiso, L. Z. and Anandjiwala, R. D. (2016). 4 - fibre-reinforced laminates in aerospace engineering.
In Rana, S. and Fangueiro, R., editors, Advanced Composite Materials for Aerospace Engineering,
pages 101–127. Woodhead Publishing.

APPENDIX A
This section, if necessary, must be included here.
For Papers written in Portuguese or Spanish a translation of title, abstract and keywords into English
must be provided after the Appendix using the same format for title, abstract and keywords presented in
the first page of the template.

XXVIII ENMC – Encontro Nacional de Modelagem Computacional
XVI ECTM – Encontro de Ciência e Tecnologia de Materiais
21 a 24 de outubro de 2025

